# Members
Swapnil Das 2015CS10263
Tanmay Bansal 2015CS10264
B. Sourabh 2015CS10218

# Description of files in the zip

## compile.sh
Bash script to compile the source code, apriori.cpp and fptree.cpp

## 2015CS10263.sh
Bash file to run the files. Checks for which to run and calls the correct executable

## apriori.cpp
Apriori algorithm implementation

## fptree.cpp
FpTree implementation

## plot.py
Reads from logs.txt generated by bash file to generate a plot

## Explanation of part B

# For lower time of FPTree.
The most time consuming step in APriori is candidate genaration and check if it satisfies the minSupport criteria. FPTree avoids the latter by maitaining a tree in memory and the former by generating a set only if its lower sized subset is frequent. Hence the lower time for FPTree. Also it avoids repeated reading of database.

# For decrease in time taken.
As can be seen the time taken for the code run decreases as the minSupport is increased. This because as more support is required more candidate sets are elimnated/FPTree is pruned more shallowly at each step hence the algorithm deals with lower and lower number of sets/Conditional Trees and hence perfmonace increases. 

# Graph analysis
From the graph, it is visible that the computational time for apriori algorithm shows a exponential decrease with increase in minimum support value. This is because as the minimum support is reduced, more and more itemsets become frequent and so increased number of candidate sets. 

While for FP-Tree Growth, the running time doesn’t change much except for very low support values. Moreover, the time required mine frequent itemsets by Apriori algorithm is more than that of FP-Tree. This is because candidate-set generation is an expensive process and increase exponentially for low support values. Also,number of database read is high for Apriori as it requires to read the database at each level of candidate set generation, while that for FP-Tree is two each time. When only size 1 frequent sets are generated because of high requirement of minimum support Apriori outperfoms FpTree as only 1 database scan is needed.

For high minimum support no more candidates are generated so apriori tends to fptree.

## Assumptions
Data will be integers and will be in a range (0 - N) where N is max ID of an item

